README.md, before:

# Business Expense Tracker - Employee Management

A Next.js application for managing employee information with comprehensive logging capabilities.

<!-- Updated for Vercel deployment fix -->

## Features

- Add new employees
- Edit existing employees
- Delete employees
- View all employees in a responsive table
- Unique IDs automatically generated for each employee
- Form validation
- Comprehensive logging for frontend, backend, and database operations

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- SQLite database (for development) or PostgreSQL (for production)
- npm or yarn

## Logging System

This application includes a comprehensive logging system that writes logs to local files in development:

- **Frontend logs**: Captures user interactions, form submissions, and UI events (`logs/frontend.log`)
- **Backend logs**: Records API requests, responses, and server-side operations (`logs/backend.log`)
- **Database logs**: Tracks all database operations (create, read, update, delete) (`logs/database.log`)
- **Error logs**: Separate error files for each service (`logs/*.error.log`)

In production, logs are managed through the platform's logging system (e.g., Vercel logs). Logs are automatically rotated when they reach 20MB in development, keeping up to 5 files per service.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Database Setup (SQLite - Default)

The application is configured to use SQLite for easy local development:

1. The `.env` file already contains:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
   ```

2. The Prisma schema is set up for SQLite:
   ```prisma
   datasource db {
     provider = "sqlite"
     url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
   }
   ```

For production with PostgreSQL, update the `DATABASE_URL` in `.env`:
```bash
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/employee_tracker"
```

And change the provider in `prisma/schema.prisma` to:
```prisma
datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}
```

### 3. Run Prisma Migrations

Generate and apply the database schema:

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

### 4. Run the Application

For development:
```bash
npm run dev
```

To run with logging enabled:
```bash
npm run dev:log
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## Log Files

After running the application, log files will be created in the `logs/` directory:

- `logs/frontend.log` - Frontend user interactions and events
- `logs/frontend.error.log` - Frontend errors only
- `logs/backend.log` - Backend API requests and responses
- `logs/backend.error.log` - Backend errors only
- `logs/database.log` - Database operations (queries, mutations)
- `logs/database.error.log` - Database errors only

## Project Structure

```
├── logs/                    # Log files (auto-generated)
├── prisma/                  # Prisma database schema and migrations
│   └── schema.prisma        # Database schema definition
├── public/                  # Static assets
├── src/
│   ├── app/                 # Next.js app router pages
│   │   ├── api/             # API routes
│   │   │   ├── employees/   # Employee management API routes
│   │   │   └── logs/        # Logging API routes
│   │   └── page.tsx         # Main application page
│   └── lib/                 # Utility functions
│       ├── logger.ts        # Logging configuration (Winston)
│       ├── middleware.ts    # Logging middleware
│       ├── prisma.ts        # Database connection (Prisma client)
│       └── employeeService.ts # Employee operations with logging
├── .env                     # Environment variables
├── .env.local               # Local environment variables
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── package.json             # Project dependencies and scripts
└── README.md                # This file
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /api/employees` - Get all employees
- `POST /api/employees` - Create a new employee
- `GET /api/employees/[id]` - Get a specific employee
- `PUT /api/employees/[id]` - Update a specific employee
- `DELETE /api/employees/[id]` - Delete a specific employee
- `POST /api/logs` - Frontend log collection endpoint

## Technologies Used

- Next.js 14+ with App Router
- TypeScript
- Prisma ORM
- SQLite (default) or PostgreSQL (production)
- Tailwind CSS
- Winston logging library
- Node.js

## Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/aarshps/business-expense-tracker)

### Environment Variables

For deployment, ensure you set the following environment variable:

- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string for production or SQLite for development

Note: For production deployments, logging configuration may need to be adjusted based on the hosting platform's file system capabilities.

Commit message:

Fix Prisma query engine error for Vercel deployment

README.md, after:

# Business Expense Tracker - Employee Management

A Next.js application for managing employee information with comprehensive logging capabilities.

<!-- Updated for Vercel deployment fix -->

## Features

- Add new employees
- Edit existing employees
- Delete employees
- View all employees in a responsive table
- Unique IDs automatically generated for each employee
- Form validation
- Comprehensive logging for frontend, backend, and database operations

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- SQLite database (for development) or PostgreSQL (for production)
- npm or yarn

## Logging System

This application includes a comprehensive logging system that writes logs to local files in development:

- **Frontend logs**: Captures user interactions, form submissions, and UI events (`logs/frontend.log`)
- **Backend logs**: Records API requests, responses, and server-side operations (`logs/backend.log`)
- **Database logs**: Tracks all database operations (create, read, update, delete) (`logs/database.log`)
- **Error logs**: Separate error files for each service (`logs/*.error.log`)

In production, logs are managed through the platform's logging system (e.g., Vercel logs). Logs are automatically rotated when they reach 20MB in development, keeping up to 5 files per service.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Database Setup (SQLite - Default)

The application is configured to use SQLite for easy local development:

1. The `.env` file already contains:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
   ```

2. The Prisma schema is set up for SQLite:
   ```prisma
   datasource db {
     provider = "sqlite"
     url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
   }
   ```

For production with PostgreSQL, update the `DATABASE_URL` in `.env`:
```bash
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/employee_tracker"
```

And change the provider in `prisma/schema.prisma` to:
```prisma
datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}
```

### 3. Run Prisma Migrations

Generate and apply the database schema:

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

### 4. Run the Application

For development:
```bash
npm run dev
```

To run with logging enabled:
```bash
npm run dev:log
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## Log Files

After running the application, log files will be created in the `logs/` directory:

- `logs/frontend.log` - Frontend user interactions and events
- `logs/frontend.error.log` - Frontend errors only
- `logs/backend.log` - Backend API requests and responses
- `logs/backend.error.log` - Backend errors only
- `logs/database.log` - Database operations (queries, mutations)
- `logs/database.error.log` - Database errors only

## Project Structure

```
├── logs/                    # Log files (auto-generated)
├── prisma/                  # Prisma database schema and migrations
│   └── schema.prisma        # Database schema definition
├── public/                  # Static assets
├── src/
│   ├── app/                 # Next.js app router pages
│   │   ├── api/             # API routes
│   │   │   ├── employees/   # Employee management API routes
│   │   │   └── logs/        # Logging API routes
│   │   └── page.tsx         # Main application page
│   └── lib/                 # Utility functions
│       ├── logger.ts        # Logging configuration (Winston)
│       ├── middleware.ts    # Logging middleware
│       ├── prisma.ts        # Database connection (Prisma client)
│       └── employeeService.ts # Employee operations with logging
├── .env                     # Environment variables
├── .env.local               # Local environment variables
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── package.json             # Project dependencies and scripts
└── README.md                # This file
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /api/employees` - Get all employees
- `POST /api/employees` - Create a new employee
- `GET /api/employees/[id]` - Get a specific employee
- `PUT /api/employees/[id]` - Update a specific employee
- `DELETE /api/employees/[id]` - Delete a specific employee
- `POST /api/logs` - Frontend log collection endpoint

## Technologies Used

- Next.js 14+ with App Router
- TypeScript
- Prisma ORM
- SQLite (default) or PostgreSQL (production)
- Tailwind CSS
- Winston logging library
- Node.js

## Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/aarshps/business-expense-tracker)

### Environment Variables

For deployment, ensure you set the following environment variable:

- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string for production or SQLite for development
- `DIRECT_URL` (optional): Direct database connection URL for Vercel deployments with Data Proxy

### Vercel Deployment Configuration

This application is configured to work with Vercel deployments. For the Prisma client to work properly in Vercel's environment:

1. The `prisma/schema.prisma` file includes the correct binary targets for Linux environments
2. The `vercel.json` file configures the build process to include Prisma client files
3. The `src/lib/prisma.ts` file handles different initialization for production vs development

For production deployments with persistent data, it's recommended to use PostgreSQL instead of SQLite, as SQLite databases are not suitable for serverless functions due to the ephemeral file system.

Note: For production deployments, logging configuration may need to be adjusted based on the hosting platform's file system capabilities.
